# IOT-BASED-FARMERS-HELPER
This Project presents a smart system to predict the irrigation requirements of a field utilizing the detecting of ground boundaries like soil moisture, soil temperature, and ecological conditions alongside the climate figure information from the Internet. The detecting nodes, engaged with the ground and ecological detecting, consider soil moisture, soil temperature, air temperature, Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation, and relative humidity of the yield field.This also serves the purpose of saving the crops from wild animals with the help of proximity sensors and alarms. The application explicit sensors' information securing and intelligent processing, are spanning the holes between the cyber and physical worlds. IOT based smart irrigation management systems can help in accomplishing ideal water-asset use in the accuracy cultivating scene. India being a developing country, agriculture is still the primary occupation of the majority of people.Presently the organic market of rural items has not been controlled as expected in light of physically estimating the ecological boundaries by the farmers. Hence, adoption of technology based farming is necessary to increase the revenue.Indeed, even the climatic changes and precipitation has been unpredictable in the course of recent many years. Absence of precipitation and over the top precipitation both are hazardous to the development. The connection examination between the yield factual data and rural climate data improves the capacity of the ranchers to dissect the current condition and foresee the future gathering. In this paper, the sensor innovation and remote organization in joining with IoT has been considered and evaluated dependent on the real rural framework. Here a circulated remote organization of sensors is utilized to gather the ongoing information of the different natural boundaries. The system involves image processing techniques to identify the leaf diseases. This project also shows the data analysis in R programming of mean temperature,mean pressure,humidity and wind speed.Collected data of 20 years and with this collected data we have calculated the mean temperature,mean pressure,humidity and wind speed and plotted the graph of previous data through this analysis we have also predicted the future data to know the type of crop grown and the type of weather condition at a particular time. Two types of algorithms are used in R programming: simple moving average and exponential smoothing algorithm. Node red flow is used and programmed to show the current weather conditions such as max,min temp , wind direction , deg,gust,visibility,sea level,ground level,pressure,cloud number.

The identification of the techniques of smart farming that can give a boost to the deteriorating traditional agricultural sector. Use of smart techniques like Precision farming, efficient water management, Soil moisture and humidity monitoring are sure-shot methods to increase yield per acre of land. Accuracy Agriculture stays away from the inappropriate and overabundant use of pesticides and composts and empowers the rancher to utilize land as indicated by its quality and nature. Accuracy Farming is a possible salvager when the water tables in India are diminishing at a speedy rate due to amazing revenue by the plant and present day regions.Farmers still procrastinate or stubborn to traditional practices and delay in implementation may further decrease the GDP in India. Recently skill acquired migrants all over India who had returned to their natives during the Pandemic Covid-19 had chosen farming as their profession and are not interested in going back. These migrants can now move closure to smart agriculture systems as it takes less time than traditional farmers to convince them to adopt the implementation of Smart agriculture system. This Project presents a smart system to predict the irrigation requirements of a field using the sensing of ground parameters like soil moisture, soil temperature, and environmental conditions along with the weather forecast data from the Internet. The detecting nodes, engaged with the ground and natural detecting, consider soil moisture, soil temperature, air temperature, Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation, and relative humidity of the harvest field.We also learned how these different sensors, namely Humidity, Temperature and Sunlight, work and how we can combine them to form an invention that will end up ultimately helping our society. Through R programming, prediction of future weather conditions helps farmers to predict what crops can be grown in a particular season with the data to mean temp , mean pressure, wind speed, humidity. Smart farming is a hi tech and powerful process for doing agriculture and developing food in a manageable manner. It is a use of executing associated gadgets and imaginative advances together into farming. smart Farming significantly relies upon IoT subsequently disposing of the need of actual work of ranchers and cultivators and consequently expanding the usefulness in each conceivable way.With the recent agricultural trends dependent on agriculture, the Internet of Things has brought huge benefits like efficient use of water, optimization of inputs and many more. What had the effect were the gigantic advantages and which has turned into a changed horticulture in the new days. IoT based Smart Farming further fosters the entire Agriculture structure by checking the field consistently. With the assistance of sensors and interconnectivity, the Internet of Things in Agriculture has saved the lives of the ranchers as well as decreased the excessive utilization of assets like Water and Electricity.
